---
layout:     page
title:      Measures Template
published:  true
order:      /
---

The MeasuresTemplate template class creates measures based on the template in the following [Measure Template Definition](#measure-template-definition) definition.

The template identifies column, table, and measure dependencies by using specific annotations.

~~~
{
  "_comment": "Standard Time Intelligence",
  "TargetTable": {
    "SQLBI_CalendarType": "Calendar"
  },
  "TemplateAnnotations": {
    "SQLBI_Template": "TimeIntelligence",
    "SQLBI_TimeIntelligence": "Standard",
    "SQLBI_CalendarType": "Calendar"
  },
  "MeasureTemplates": [...]
}
~~~


# Measure Template Definition

## TargetTable
List of annotations that must be matched at the table level in order to apply the measure template. See [Annotations](../configuration/annotations.md) for standard annotations used.

## TemplateAnnotations
List of annotations applied to the measures generated by the template. By looking at these annotations it is possible to identify and modify/remove the measures created by a measure template. For example, when a Time Intelligence template is applied to a model, the measures generated by a previous execution of a Time Intelligence template are removed. See [Annotations](../configuration/annotations.md) for standard annotations used.

## MeasureTemplates
List of [Measure Template](#measure-template) objects, one for each template item.

# Measure Template
A measure template item defines how to create a measure for the template.

~~~
  "MeasureTemplates": [
    {
      "Name": "_ShowValueForDates",
      "IsHidden": true,
      "IsSingleInstance": true,
      "MultiLineComment": [
        "Returns TRUE if the period selected is earlier",
        "than the last period with data."
      ],
      "MultiLineExpression": [
        "VAR __LastDateWithData =",
        "    CALCULATE (",
        "        @@GETMAXDATE(),",
        "        REMOVEFILTERS ()",
        "    )",
        "VAR __FirstDateVisible =",
        "    MIN ( @_C-SQLBI_AttributeTypes-Date_@ )",
        "VAR __Result =",
        "    __FirstDateVisible <= __LastDateWithData",
        "RETURN",
        "    __Result"
      ]
    },
    {
      "Name": "YTD",
      "DisplayFolder": "To-date total",
      "MultiLineExpression": [
        "IF (",
        "    [_ShowValueForDates],",
        "    CALCULATE (",
        "        @@GETMEASURE(),",
        "        DATESYTD ( @_C-SQLBI_AttributeTypes-Date_@ )",
        "    )",
        ")"
      ]
    },
    ...
  ]
~~~

## Name
Name of the measure template. if [IsSingleInstance](#issingleinstance) is **false**, this is the name applied as a prefix or suffix to the existing measure name when the new measure is created from the template. For example, *YTD* for *Sales Amount* will create *YTD Sales Amount* or *Sales Amount YTD*.

## FormatString
(optional) Format String of the measure.

## IsHidden
**true** if the measure is hidden.

## IsSingleInstance
**true** if the measure must be created in a single instance and not for every measure. For example, the *_ShowValueForDates* measure is created only once by the time intelligence template and used by other measures created by the same template.

## DisplayFolder
Name of the display folder.

## Description
Description of the measure.

## Annotations
List of annotations applied to the measure.

## Expression
DAX expression defined in a single line. If defined, [Expression](#expression) has precedence over [MultiLineExpression](#multilineexpression).

## MultiLineExpression
Array of strings that define a comment in multiple lines. If [Expression](#expression) is defined, then [MultiLineExpression](#multilineexpression) is ignored.

## Comment
Single line comment. If defined, [Comment](#comment) has precedence over [MultiLineComment](#multilinecomment).

## MultiLineComment
Array of strings that define a DAX expression in a multiple lines. If [Comment](#comment) is defined, then [MultiLineComment](#multilinecomment) is ignored.