---
layout:     page
title:      Templates
published:  true
order:      /
---

## Templates
List of templates to apply. The templates are applied in the same order as they are defined in the list.

### Class
Template class name:
- **CustomDateTable**: Create a Date table using the [Custom Date Table](../../templates/custom-date-table.md) template.
- **HolidaysDefinition**: Create a table using the [Holidays Definition Table](../../templates/holidays-definition-table.md) table, which defines the logic to generate an [Holidays Table](../../templates/holidays-table.md).
- **HolidaysTable**: Create a [Holidays Table](../../templates/holidays-table.md) based on the content of an [Holidays Definition Table](../../templates/holidays-definition-table.md). 
- **MeasuresTemplate**: Create measures using the [Measures Template](../../templates/measures.md).

### Table
Name of the table created by the template (used only by templates that create calculated tables).

### Template
Template configuration. It can be an external JSON file or a reference to a corresponding section (without the .JSON extension name) in the self-contained template file.

### ReferenceTable
If specified, creates a hidden table with the ReferenceTable name that contains the complete definition of the calculated table, whereas the table generated only has a reference to that hidden table.

This way, when clicking a column of the calculated table generated by the template, the Power BI Desktop user only sees a single line that references the hidden table, without covering the report area with the DAX code of the calculated table.

### LocalizationFiles
Array of strings with the files used for the localization.

### TargetMeasures
Array of criterias used to identify the measures to process. It is relevant only for measure templates.

### IsHidden
Flag true/false to specify whether the table created should be hidden. It is relevant only for table templates.

### IsEnabled
Flag true/false to specify whether the template is enabled or not. If a template is not enabled, it is ignored.
Usually, this flag is used internally to disable templates that are not required for other configuration settings.

### Properties
List of properties that are used internally by specific templates. For example, the MeasureTemplate uses *DisplayFolderRule* and *DisplayFolderRuleSingleInstanceMeasures*.
