---
layout:     page
title:      Config
published:  true
order:      /
---
The Config object defines a group of templates to apply to a Tabular model, including all the parameters required to perform the operation.

# Templates
Configuration of the templates to apply on a Tabular model in a single run of the engine.

## Templates
List of templates to apply. The templates are applied in the same order as they are defined in the list.

### Class
Template class name:
- **CustomDateTable**: Create a Date table using the [Custom Date Table](../templates/custom-date-table.md) template.
- **HolidaysDefinition**: Create a table using the [Holidays Definition Table](../templates/holidays-definition-table.md) table, which defines the logic to generate an [Holidays Table](../templates/holidays-table.md).
- **HolidaysTable**: Create a [Holidays Table](../templates/holidays-table.md) based on the content of an [Holidays Definition Table](../templates/holidays-definition-table.md). 
- **MeasuresTemplate**: Create measures using the [Measures Template](../templates/measures.md).

### Table
Name of the table created by the template (used only by templates that create calculated tables).

### Template
Template configuration. It can be an external JSON file or a reference to a corresponding section (without the .JSON extension name) in the self-contained template file.

### ReferenceTable
If specified, creates a hidden table with the ReferenceTable name that contains the complete definition of the calculated table, whereas the table generated only has a reference to that hidden table.

This way, when clicking a column of the calculated table generated by the template, the Power BI Desktop user only sees a single line that references the hidden table, without covering the report area with the DAX code of the calculated table.

### LocalizationFiles
Array of strings with the files used for the localization.

### TargetMeasures
Array of criterias used to identify the measures to process. It is relevant only for measure templates.

### IsHidden
Flag true/false to specify whether the table created should be hidden. It is relevant only for table templates.

### IsEnabled
Flag true/false to specify whether the template is enabled or not. If a template is not enabled, it is ignored.
Usually, this flag is used internally to disable templates that are not required for other configuration settings.

### Properties
List of properties that are used internally by specific templates. For example, the MeasureTemplate uses *DisplayFolderRule* and *DisplayFolderRuleSingleInstanceMeasures*.

# Scan
Configuration section for the automatic scan of the model to retrieve a date range for the Date table from existing date columns in the model.

## OnlyTablesColumns
List of tables and columns to include in the scan. If not specified, all the model columns are included by default if the *SelectedTablesColumns* [AutoScan](#autoscan) setting is active.

A table name includes all the Date columns of the specified table. Use fully qualified names like *'table name'[column name]* to include individual columns.

## ExceptTablesColumns
List of tables and columns to be excluded in the scan. This setting is used on when the *SelectedTablesColumns* [AutoScan](#autoscan) setting is active.

A table name excludes all the Date columns of the specified table. Use fully qualified names like *'table name'[column name]* to exclude individual columns.

## AutoScan
Defines the automatic scan to find the date range for a date table. Multiple settings can be active at the same time.

- **Disabled** (0): Does not scan data to find min/max date.
- **SelectedTablesColumns** (1): Scan [OnlyTablesColumns](#onlytablescolumns) excluding [ExceptTablesColumns](#excepttablescolumns).
- **ScanActiveRelationships** (2): Scan active relationships connected to the target Date table.
- **ScanInactiveRelationships** (4): Scan inactive relationships connected to the target Date table.
- **Full** (127): Use all the scan features.

# CustomTable
Configuration for custom tables.

## DefaultVariables
Specify a list of dictionary entries that define the default value assigned to global variable in the template. These values override the expression assigned to a global variable in the template.

# MeasureTemplate
Configuration for measure template.

## TargetMeasures
Array of objects where each item has the following properties.
### Name
Name of the measure on which to apply the measure template.

## AutoNaming
Specifies how to create the name of measures generated by the template.
- **Suffix**: use the template item name as a suffix in the generated measure name
- **Prefix**: use the template item name as a suffix in the generated measure name

## AutoNamingSeparator
Separator between prefix and measure name or measure name and suffix for the measures generated by the measure template.

## TableSingleInstanceMeasures
If defined, creates all the measures generated by the measure template into the table specified.

# Localization
Configuration for localization.

## IsoTranslation
Specifies the ISO translation (like "en-US"). If null, it does not apply a translation to the template.

## IsoFormat
Specifies the ISO code for the international format applied to the DAX template placeholder [@@GETISO](./dax-placeholders.md#vars).

## LocalizationFiles
List of localization files. Each localization file corresponds to a [TranslationDefinition](./definitions/translation-definition.md) object.

# Holidays
Controls how to generate an *Holidays* table used to identify holidays in a Date table. 

## IsoCountry
Two-letter ISO code of the country to use. The holidays are retrieved for a single country from the HolidaysDefinition table.

## InLieuOfPrefix
Prefix of holiday name generated by "in lieu of" algorithm.

## InLieuOfSuffix
Suffix of holiday name generated by "in lieu of" algorithm.

## HolidaysDefinitionTable
Name of the table generated by the HolidaysDefinition template containing the definition of the holidays for the supported countries.

## WorkingDays
String expression that returns a DAX table with one column and as many rows as the number of working days. The weekdays are expressed by integer numbers where Sunday is 0. For example, to specify Monday to Friday as working days use the following table constructor:
~~~
{ 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 }
~~~

# DateTemplate
Configuration specific for date table template. Bravo has a simplified configuration and assigns the same First Year value to both [FirstYearMin](#firstyearmin) and [FirstYearMax](#firstyearmax), and the same Last Year value to both [LastYearMin](#lastyearmin) and [LastYearMax](#lastyearmax).

## FirstYearMin
If defined, it is the minimum value for the first year generated in the Date table. If the year found by the automatic scan is less than [FirstYearMin](#firstyearmin), then the Date table will start from the [FirstYearMin](#firstyearmin) year.

## FirstYearMax
If defined, it is the maximum value for the first year generated in the Date table. If the year found by the automatic scan is greater than [FirstYearMax](#firstyearmax), then the Date table will start from the [FirstYearMax](#firstyearmax) year.

## LastYearMin
If defined, it is the minimum value for the last year generated in the Date table. If the year found by the automatic scan is less than [LastYearMin](#lastyearmin), then the Date table will start from the [LastYearMin](#lastyearmin) year.

## LastYearMax
If defined, it is the maximum value for the first year generated in the Date table. If the year found by the automatic scan is greater than [LastYearMax](#lastyearmax), then the Date table will start from the [LastYearMax](#lastyearmax) year.

## HolidaysReference
Configuration for holidays used to create working and non-working days in the Date table.

### IsEnabled
Use **true** to generate the Date table using the Holidays table, or **false** to ignore holidays related information.

### TableName
Name of the Holidays table.

### DateColumnName
Name of the column of Date data type in the Holidays table.

### HolidayColumnName
Name of the column of type string containing the name of the holiday for each corresponding date in the Holidays table. 
